# Predictive Modeling Final Project
There exists a need to provide statistical models to identify individuals that are most at risk for depression.    In particular, it is of particular interest to utilize advanced statistical learning techniques to determine the relationship between the demographic, psychographic and medical of individuals and the diagnosis of depressive disorder.

In particular, we utilized the boosted trees and random forest algorithms to predict the probability of being diagnosed with major depressive disorder using data curated from the BRFSS (Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System).  Classification models based upon random forest algorithms had a sensitivity of 65%, a value that is relatively good for attempting to model complex human behavior. These models indicated that risk factors such as lack of sleep, overworking, gender and marital status were strongly associated with a major depression diagnosis.

In the second part of the project,  we endeavored to provide an accurate regression model to predict the severity (from 1 to 9) of depressive disorder. In this case, the numerical dependent variable of interest was a depression severity score calculated from the PHQ-09 module on 2017 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES).   The NHANES also contains a wealth of demographic, laboratory (i.e., blood tests), medical, dietary and psychographic data.   The major goal of this exercise was to develop a model or models that would quantitatively predict the severity of depression based upon certain risk factors.   Multivariate linear regression models using predictors as determined via best subset selection resulted in a model with a fairly modest mean squared error, but still substantially better than the null model.   Key variables that seem to affect the severity of a depressive disorder were identified and the models were further optimized via regularization.

